Update LEZ wallet tutorials (#422)
status-im/ift-docs: docs/lez/get-started/run-lez-wallet-via-cli.md

---

> title: Connect the wallet CLI to the LEZ testnet

Reviewer: The frontmatter `title` still reads *Connect the wallet CLI to the LEZ testnet*, which no longer matches the page's H1 (`# Run an LEZ wallet via the CLI`) or the new slug. Docusaurus uses this field for the browser tab title and page metadata, so it should track the new title.

```suggestion
title: Run an LEZ wallet via the CLI
```

doc_type: procedure
product: lez
topics: lez
steps_layout: flat
authors: moudyellaz, kashepavadan
owner: logos
doc_version: 1
slug: run-lez-wallet-via-cli
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Run an LEZ wallet via the CLI

#### Try the wallet CLI against the live LEZ testnet.

This procedure explains how to install the wallet CLI from the [LEZ repository](https://github.com/logos-blockchain/logos-execution-zone/) and point it at the public [LEZ](../../get-started/glossary.md#lez) testnet sequencer.

## What to expect

- You can run wallet commands against the live LEZ testnet sequencer.
- Your wallet is configured to target `https://testnet.lez.logos.co` as the sequencer address.

> ## Install the wallet and connect it to the testnet

Reviewer: **Missing prerequisites.** Deleting `quickstart-for-the-logos-execution-zone-wallet.md` also removed its *Install the prerequisites* section, and this page now jumps straight to `cargo install --path lez/wallet --force` with nothing before it. On a clean machine that step fails: `cargo` isn't present, and the build needs a C toolchain (I had to install `clang`/`libclang-dev`/`pkg-config`/`libssl-dev` to get it to compile). Suggest reinstating a short *Before you start* section:

```suggestion
## Before you start

Make sure you have the following installed:

- **Rust and `cargo`** — install with [`rustup`](https://rustup.rs). The wallet pins its toolchain via `rust-toolchain.toml`, so the correct version is selected automatically.
- **System build dependencies** for compiling the wallet from source:

  ```bash
  # Ubuntu / Debian
  sudo apt update
  sudo apt install git curl build-essential clang libclang-dev pkg-config libssl-dev
  ```

  ```bash
  # Fedora
  sudo dnf install git curl gcc glibc-devel clang clang-devel pkgconf-pkg-config openssl-devel llvm-libs
  ```

  ```bash
  # macOS
  xcode-select --install
  brew install pkg-config openssl
  ```

## Install the wallet and connect it to the testnet
```

1. In the LEZ repository, check out the correct release tag:

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/logos-blockchain/logos-execution-zone.git
   cd logos-execution-zone
   git checkout v0.2.0
   ```

1. Rename the existing wallet directory (if you have one) to avoid conflicts:

   ```sh

>    mv ~/.nssa/wallet ~/.nssa/wallet.old 2>/dev/null || true

Reviewer: The v0.2.0 wallet stores its state under `~/.lee/wallet`, not `~/.nssa/wallet` — every command prints `Stored persistent accounts at ~/.lee/wallet/storage.json`. As written this rename targets a path that doesn't exist, so it won't actually avoid a conflict with an existing wallet. (The `~/.nssa/wallet` path referenced in the transfer tutorials is stale for the same reason.)

```suggestion
   mv ~/.lee/wallet ~/.lee/wallet.old 2>/dev/null || true
```

   ```

1. Install the wallet CLI:

   ```sh
   cargo install --path lez/wallet --force
   ```

1. Set the testnet sequencer address:

   ```sh
   wallet config set sequencer_addr https://testnet.lez.logos.co
   ```

## Verify the connection

1. Run the health check command:

   ```sh
   wallet check-health
   ```

   A successful connection returns:

   ```sh
   ✅All looks good!
   ```

## Complete a minimal wallet flow

In this flow, you create and initialise an account, claim testnet funds, send a transfer, and confirm resulting balances.

In this task, wallet account and transfer commands interact with the authenticated-transfer [program](../../get-started/glossary.md#program), and sequencer processing determines the resulting account state. Public and private account paths share command patterns, while private paths can include local proof generation.

### Create and initialise the sender public account

1. Create a sender [public account](../../get-started/glossary.md#public-account) and record the `account_id` value:

   ```bash

>    cd ~/logos/src/logos-execution-zone

Reviewer: `cd ~/logos/src/logos-execution-zone` points at a directory this procedure never creates — the install step above clones into the current working directory (`git clone … && cd logos-execution-zone`). Following the page from scratch, this line fails with *No such file or directory*. It's also unnecessary: `cargo install` puts `wallet` on your `PATH`, so the command runs from anywhere. (The `~/logos/src` path is a leftover from the removed quickstart, which did `mkdir -p ~/logos/src`.)

```suggestion
   wallet account new public
```

   wallet account new public
   ```

1. Using the sender public `account_id` from the previous step, check the sender status:

   ```bash
   wallet account get --account-id <sender_public_account_id>
   ```

   Example:

   ```bash
   wallet account get --account-id Public/14TYHiuzKiNR1ydETpr9mJMkjY6jf1hQFZ11d3X8Tc7N
   ```

   You should see `Account is Uninitialized` in the output. New accounts start uninitialised, so no program owns them yet. A program can claim an uninitialised account (for example, the authenticated-transfer program or the [token program](../../get-started/glossary.md#token-program)). After a program claims an account, only that program can modify the account state. LEZ makes one exception for account credits, where any program can credit native tokens to any account. For account debits, LEZ requires the owning program.

1. Initialise the sender account, then check the updated state:

   :::info
Running `wallet auth-transfer init` initialises the sender account under the authenticated-transfer program, so the account can debit native tokens when you send transfers.
:::

   ```bash
   wallet auth-transfer init --account-id <sender_public_account_id>
   ```

>    In the output, you should see `status: "Transaction submitted"`, and the transaction hash. If you change to the terminal session where the sequencer is running, you can see a message similar to this: `Validated transaction with hash <hash_id>, including it in block`.

Reviewer: Two testnet mismatches in this paragraph:

1. The CLI prints `Transaction hash is <hash>` (plus the raw `Transaction data`), not `status: "Transaction submitted"`.
2. This page targets the public testnet sequencer, so there is no local *terminal session where the sequencer is running* — that sentence and the `Validated transaction … including it in block` log line are leftovers from the local-standalone quickstart.

```suggestion
   In the output, you should see the transaction hash printed as `Transaction hash is <hash>`.
```

1. Check the account updated state:

   ```bash
   wallet account get --account-id <sender_public_account_id>
   ```

   In the output you should see `Account owned by authenticated transfer program`, with `"balance":0`.

### Claim funds using the Piñata faucet

"[Piñata](../../get-started/glossary.md#piñata)" is the name of the LEZ-specific testnet faucet program that funds accounts with native tokens.

1. Fund the sender account via Piñata:

   ```bash
   # This may take a few seconds to complete
   wallet pinata claim --to <sender_public_account_id>
   ```

2. Check the sender account balance:

   ```bash
   wallet account get --account-id <sender_public_account_id>
   ```

   In the output you should see `Account owned by authenticated transfer program`, with a `"balance":150`.

### Create and fund the recipient public account

> 1. Create a recipient public account and record the `account_id` value. Complete this step in the same terminal session as the sender account commands to avoid exporting `NSSA_WALLET_HOME_DIR` again.

Reviewer: This step tells the reader to stay in the same terminal *to avoid exporting `NSSA_WALLET_HOME_DIR` again*, but this page never exports that variable — it was a step in the removed quickstart. The clause dangles, so it's best dropped:

```suggestion
1. Create a recipient public account and record the `account_id` value:
```
